Sprint Reflections

Sprint 3 Reflection

  The overall process this sprint was heavily diminished. Our group did not begin what I would call true proper work until the Monday before the Functionality Check In was due. Of course in future sprints this should change and overall, must change if we want to     keeppushing ourselves to the limit of what we can really do. Our poor design decisions in Sprint 2, differing implementations of enemies and lack of proper movement for them as well as slight differences in the way mario moved did not help when we needed to update all processes accordingly which cost us much more time that we did not save or plan for us to take. We had implemented a class called Hitbox in order to be used for collision detection towards the start of Sprint 3, which by the functionality check in, was unused and System Rectangles were used instead leading us to have different collision detections in the same system which were difficult to merge into Github. However, I believe these issues stated before hand are able to motivate this group, especially over spring break in order to tidy up all the classes and refactor them so that they all use the proper collision detection, tilemapping and sprite drawing. In addition, I believe that the issues with beginning the sprints on time will be behind us as we catch up over the break. After the detriments, we should talk about the constructive changes. A big construction is the start of the camera position class, which was created by Sam after the code review on Wednesday the 11th, which although is not necessary for the Sprint and the time spent could have been useful for the other issues that arose for Sprint 3, it will help in the later stages to have soemthing already set in. I think that more communication went through as the Sprint progressed, as towards the beginning of the sprint, there was little to no communication which was the major factor in why no one had truly decided on what they wanted to work on or that the group had not communicated with each other clearly enough throughout on what is going to be worked on leading to major issues with pushing to Github while pushing commits. For plans going into Sprint 4, the majority of the rectangle collision detection will be refractored to using the hitbox class, more parity between the different classes that use interfaces, like the goomba and the koopa, the different marios, and all of the blocks. Additionally, plans include updating the UI for the project, so that coins, points, lives and time are there. Finally other plans include, implementing all of the blocks and potentially changing all of the hitboxes for the player, items and enemies to be more in line with the original settings, as well as adding the points system, Life counter and invincibiilty frames, timer.
